# REST: Holistic Learning for End-to-End Semantic Segmentation of Whole-Scene Remote Sensing Imagery
This repository is the official implementation of the paper "REST: Holistic Learning for End-to-End Semantic Segmentation of Whole-Scene Remote Sensing Imagery".

## Abstract
Semantic segmentation of remote sensing imagery (RSI) is a fundamental task that aims at assigning a category label to each pixel. To pursue precise segmentation with one or more fine-grained categories, semantic segmentation often requires holistic segmentation of whole-scene RSI (WRI), which is normally characterized by a large size. However, conventional deep learning methods struggle to handle holistic segmentation of WRI due to the memory limitations of the graphics processing unit (GPU), thus requiring to adopt suboptimal strategies such as cropping or fusion, which result in performance degradation. Here, we introduce the Robust End-to-end semantic Segmentation architecture for whole-scene remoTe sensing imagery (REST), which can support various encoders and decoders in a plug-and-play manner. REST allows seamless integration with mainstream deep learning methods for semantic segmentation, including the emerging foundation models.  Specifically, we propose a novel spatial parallel interaction mechanism (SPIM) in REST to overcome the GPU memory limitations and achieve global perception. SPIM combines parallel computing with the divide-and-conquer strategy, enabling REST to segment a WRI accurately and efficiently. Theoretically and experimentally, REST achieves near-linear throughput-scalability in handling WRI with expansion of GPUs. Experimental results demonstrate that REST consistently outperforms existing cropping-based and fusion-based methods across diverse semantic segmentation tasks ranging from single-class to multi-class segmentation, from multispectral to hyperspectral imagery, and from satellite to drone platforms. The robustness and versatility of REST are expected to offer a promising solution for the holistic segmentation of WRI, with the potential for further extension to large-size medical imagery segmentation.

## Code
Coming soon.
